One of the things I wanna go ahead and
demo here, so
I talked a little bit earlier about
Cypress, but I wanna actually go ahead and
demonstrate it because I think this is one
of the things that you need to see it to
believe it kind of thing.
And so what I've brought up here is
the Cypress, basically the the UI here.
And here as you can see we have a bunch of
different tasks that we can run, and so
I'm gonna go ahead in this case run this
particular task, which in this case tests
a payment app that goes through and does
things like navigate through the test.
Enter things into the form data,
make sure that you click it,
make sure you get the right response,
and and so
this is actually acting like
interacting with a local.
There's actually integrations here,
this is not just like stub information.
And so it's going through, it's searching.
It's doing all the things.
And granted, it's blinking really fast.
So you might be thinking that,
gosh, how useful is this?
But one, I don't know about you all, but
when it's my app and
I get to watch all my tests are passing.
And on top of that I get to get this
visual representation of what's happening,
it's super gratifying.
So for example, right?
Display new transaction errors.
What you see here is that the Cypress
has gone to the extent, and
this is why to me it's like
very similar to the view ethos.
I'm making things just so easy.
So like here, you're gonna see that
we're actually, time-traveling through
the various points of our application
as the test goes through.
We can see what happens in various inputs,
right?
We can see what the response is.
So you'll see that inside of the console
here, let me bump this up a little bit.
You can actually see like the method,
right?
What was the get,
what was the URL duration was a stubbed,
what was the request.
And being able to time travel and
you enter and
test as someone who came from traditional
Selenium background is humongous.
It puts just so much value as far as like
seeing what's really happening at certain
states of your application.
And so Cypress there's also some other
things to deal with flake as well.
But it also tries to do things
to make things easier for you.
So for example, if you try to tell Cypress
to click a button on the page that is
disabled, it will actually fire an error.
It won't just force its way through and
find a way to click it.
It'll say that like, hey, by the way,
this element you're saying that should be
clickable is not clickable at this point,
it can intelligently
determine those things.
So even to the point where, if you have
a modal where the Z index is covering it,
it's not gonna click it,
it's gonna try that normal interaction of
clicking that element and
trying to replicate that.
And so on top of that too, what you
might not have realized here is that
everything on the right here,
this is actually our app rendered.
This is not just like a video.
And so that's what traditionally
people are used to also the end to end
test, right?
You wait for the test to run,
then you watch the video and you find out
something's broken, then you go back and
try to scrub the video like no.
End to end testing has come a long way.
And so again, having this really immersive
experience when going through and
seeing what exactly is happening
at these different states, right?
And watching this happen can be
honestly a really big game changer.
And so I know even for me, it actually
encourages me to wanna write tests first.
Because now I get this like basically
automatic preview of my app where
I can then say like, so for this end to
end test, I wanna make sure that when
I click the request button and
the pay button that it does these things.
It'll just run through and
automatically be run and
you get to see that like basically
like a GIF of what's happening.
And so, as your team is thinking
of adding end to end tests or
making their end to end tests better,
that they can trust and rely upon.
Just understand that like the level of
tooling has gotten to this point now,
where we can interact with our
actual application and debug things.
And as you might imagine,
if you're like in development mode,
as long as you watch the tests and
you save them, it'll automatically reload.
So you basically get the hot
module reloading aspect.
And so yeah, I could give a whole
day workshop [LAUGH] on Cypress, but
I do wanna at least show you that this
is where end to end testing has come.